I have uploaded the main scripts of my application.
I want to develop a game based on warhammer 40k.
The player would play against an AI

V1
Software installation.
Hexagon grid display :
	KT board : 30" x 22"
	sm base : 1.26"
	1 hex = 30/1.26 x 22/1.26 = 24 x 18

V2
Add Units
Units have attributes
Move action
Icons added for units

V3
Turns / units activation implementation
Added HP bar on top of the units

V4
implement of the shooting phase.

V5 
Implement charge phase

V6
Implement combat phase

V7 
Implement IA


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alias :
Modifier alias : code $PROFILE 
train : E:\Dropbox\Informatique\Holberton\40k\ p -m ai.train --new
app : E:\Dropbox\Informatique\Holberton\40k\frontend\ npm run dev

Activatio de l'environnement vituel :
.venv\Scripts\Activate

Lancer l'api depuis E:\Dropbox\Informatique\Holberton\40k :
uvicorn ai.api:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000

Lancer le jeu depuis E:\Dropbox\Informatique\Holberton\40k\frontend :
npm run dev

python -m ai.train --resume
python -m ai.train --new
python -m ai.evaluate
check : 
tensorboard --logdir ./tensorboard/

Replay :
http://localhost:5173/replay


Open your browser and visit:

    http://localhost:5173/
    → You should see your Home Page (from HomePage.tsx)

    http://localhost:5173/game
    → You should see your actual game UI

    http://localhost:5173/replay

PARAMETERS :
frontend/src/data/Scenario.ts 		(the scenario: IDs, names, player, position, color, icon)
frontend/src/data/UnitFactory.ts 	(how units are created)
frontend/src/data/Units.ts 		(types/attributes)

Overview: RL Agent Integration Steps
    Define the Agent Interface: Decide how your React app will “ask” the RL agent for moves.
    (E.g., via API call to a Python server, or by loading a JS model.)
    Prepare the State Serialization: Your game state (units, board, phase, etc.) must be converted into an input format the agent understands.
    Trigger the RL Agent Instead of the Rule-Based AI: In your runAiMovePhase, etc., call the RL agent for decisions.
    Apply the RL Agent’s Actions: Use your existing handlers to execute the agent’s chosen actions.
    (Optional) Expose “Self-Play” or Evaluation Mode: For training/testing the agent in bulk games.
1. Choose RL Agent Access Method
A. Python API Server (Most common for Deep RL)
    You host a Flask/FastAPI server that exposes an /action endpoint.
    React sends the current state, gets back an action.
B. In-Browser Model (e.g. ONNX.js, TensorFlow.js)
    If you export your model to ONNX or TF.js, load it in the browser and run predictions directly.
For your setup, option A is most common.




1. Smarter AI
    Right now, the AI always goes for the nearest enemy.
    You can make the AI evaluate danger, go for objectives, focus-fire, retreat if weak, etc.
    Add pathfinding (e.g., A*) for better movement around obstacles.
    Use priorities: e.g., target the weakest or highest-value enemy.
2. AI vs AI Mode
    Let both players be AI (good for debugging and automated playtesting).
    You can add a toggle or just change the isAiTurn check to always be true.
3. User Interface Enhancements
    Add visual hints when the AI acts (highlight its moves, animations, action logs).
    Show why the AI chose a given action (for transparency/debugging).
4. Performance/Async
    The AI now has a delay per action; tweak for realism/speed.
    For a large board or many units, consider batching actions for the AI.
5. Logging & Analytics
    Log actions/turns to help debug AI behavior or gather statistics.
6. Multiplayer or Networked Play
    If interested: add a backend (socket, REST) for real remote play or AI-vs-human online.
7. RL Agent Integration
    As your folder and project name suggest, you may want to swap this "rule-based" AI for a learned policy (RL agent).
    Your code is now nicely modular for this: swap out AI decision logic for calls to an RL model (Python, ONNX, or TensorFlow.js).


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


I want to develop a game based on warhammer 40k.
The player would play against an AI
For the AI training, I want it to train on the same scenaro as the game.
To evaluate the AI, i make it play vs a scripted bot.

Here are the main rules of the game, and behaviour for the ai :

MOVEMENT PHASE DEFINITION
I want a turn base game.
Beginning of the turn :
At the beginning of its turn, all the units of the active player are surrounded by a green hexagon.

The move phase :
- Unit selection with left click
	- All the available move cells (calculated with MOVE attribute) are colored in green
		- Left  click on a non green cell : nothing happen
		- Left click on a green cell :
			- Move the unit to this cell
			- The cells at the RNG_RNG attribute distance are in red
				- Left click on the active unit : validate the mode, cancel colored cells, end of this unit's activation
				- Right click on the active unit : cancel the move, cancel colored cells, unselect the unit, back to unit
Once all the units have been moved this way, the active player's turn ends

ADDING SHOOTING PHASE
1. Two-Phase Turn Structure
    After all your units have moved, the game does not switch to the other player. Instead, it transitions to the shooting phase for your side.
    After the shooting phase is finished (all eligible units have shot or none can shoot), then the turn passes to the other player (who starts with their movement phase).
2. Movement Phase (as before)
    You can select and move each unit once per turn, as before.
    Only your units that haven’t moved are selectable (green outline).
3. Shooting Phase: Eligible Unit Selection
    Only your units that have at least one enemy within their RNG_RNG (shooting range) and haven’t shot yet are selectable (green outline).
    Units that cannot shoot (nobody in range, or already shot this phase) are not selectable.
4. Shooting Phase: Attack Preview Activation
    When you select an eligible shooter unit in the shooting phase, the board:
        Highlights the selected shooter.
        Highlights the enemy units in range (with a red outline/circle).
        Red-cells the hexes in range (if using the attackCells logic).
    This is the "attack preview" state.
5. Clicking on Enemy Units
    When you are in attack preview mode (after selecting a shooter):
        Clicking on an enemy unit within range will attempt to call the (currently unimplemented) onShoot action.
            You will see the visual feedback from your click handler (e.g., you can log something in the callback for now).
            No HP reduction or removal yet—that’s for the next patch.
6. Shooting Once per Shooter
    After a shooter has shot (if you later implement marking them as used), they will not be selectable again for shooting in this phase.


CHARGE PHASE DEFINITION
1. Eligibility for Selection (charge phase):
    A unit is eligible (gets green outline and is selectable) if:
        It has NOT already charged this phase.
        No enemy is adjacent to it.
        At least one enemy is within its MOVE range.
2. Highlight Eligible Units
    Only those eligible units get a green outline, and only those can be selected.
3. When a charger is selected (chargePreview):
    Red outline: all enemy units that are within the charger’s MOVE range.
    Orange cells:
        Any cell within the charger’s MOVE range,
        And that is adjacent (distance = 1) to at least one enemy within the charger’s MOVE range.
4. Clicking orange cell
    Moves the charging unit to that cell (just move, don’t immediately “end” or unselect).
    The user can continue with the activation.
5. Right click on the active unit
    Cancels the charge, returns to step 1 (unit is still eligible and re-selectable).
6. Left click on the active unit (after charge)
    Validates the charge: marks the unit as charged, unselects, and ends activation for this unit.
7. One charge per unit per phase


COMBAT PHASE DEFINITION
1. Eligibility for Selection (combat phase):
    A unit is eligible (gets green outline and is selectable) if:
        It has NOT already attacked this phase.
        Enemy is adjacent to it.
2. Highlight Eligible Units
    Only those eligible units get a green outline, and only those can be selected.
3. When a combat unit is selected:
    Red outline: all enemy units that are adjacent to it.
4. Right click on the active unit
    Cancels the attack, returns to step 1 (unit is still eligible and re-selectable).
5. Clicking enemy unit
    Reduces target unit's CUR_HP by the active unit's CC_DMG value.
7. One attack per unit per phase


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AI BEHAVIOUR

Sequential (Turn-based). 
First make the ranged units play. 
A unit will shoot in preference order : 
1 - the enemy unit at RNG_RNG range :
	- with the highest RNG_DMG or CC_DMG (pick the best of all the enemy units at range) score 
	- that one or more of our melee units can charge 
	- would not kill in 1 melee phase
2 - the enemy unit at RNG_RNG range :
	- with the highest RNG_DMG or CC_DMG (pick the best of all the enemy units at range) score 
	- can be killed by the active unit in 1 shooting phase
3 - the enemy unit at RNG_RNG range with the highest RNG_DMG or CC_DMG (pick the best of all the enemy units at range) score 
	- having the less HP
	- can be killed by the active unit in 1 shooting phase

For charge phase, a melee unit will charge :
1 - the enemy unit at MOVE range with 
	- the highest RNG_DMG or CC_DMG (pick the best of all the enemy units at range) score and :
	- can be killed by the active unit in 1 melee phase
2 - the enemy unit at MOVE range :
	-  with the highest RNG_DMG or CC_DMG (pick the best of all the enemy units at range) score and :
	- has the less current HP and 
	- its HPs >= the active unit's CC_DMG
3 - the enemy unit at MOVE range with the highest RNG_DMG or CC_DMG (pick the best of all the enemy units at range) score and :
	- has the less current HP

For charge phase, a ranged unit will charge :
1 - the enemy unit at MOVE range with the highest RNG_DMG or CC_DMG (pick the best of all the enemy units at range) score and :
	- has the highest current HP 
	- can be killed by the active unit in 1 melee phase

For melee phase, a unit will attack :
1 - the enemy unit with the highest RNG_DMG or CC_DMG (pick the best of all the enemy units at range) score and :
	- can be killed by the active unit in 1 melee phase
3 - the enemy unit with the highest RNG_DMG or CC_DMG (pick the best of all the enemy units at range) score and :
	- if there is more than one, target the enemy unit having the less current HP

